I published for years in peerreview
journals and and a lot of these are
behind firewalls and things that you you
have to have subscriptions uh and you
have to be a member of the society or
all these kinds of things and you know
if you got um 500 views on a paper that
you published this is really really a
lot but now you get when you put it on
social media and and try to explain it
and you can see now you get tens tens of
thousands of millions of views you have
to have credibility you know I'm a
professor of biology and biochemistry at
Boston College I mean I have I've
studied these processes I publish in
peerreview journals I mean I have data
to support what I'm saying because I've
done these experiments I I just don't
make stuff up like some people do people
question what we do please go to the
Open Access scientific papers that I
publish please read the information and
become
knowledgeable well Professor cyer
welcome and thank you for for joining us
today on our conversations about health
and wellness and uh welcome maybe you
could tell tell the listeners a little
bit about yourself and uh how you got
into the area of cancer
research well uh thanks Rob uh nice to
be here um well you know it's a
convoluted Story one one doesn't grow up
saying oh you want to do a lot of cancer
research or anything like that it really
it really came about as the result of my
work at Yale
University uh when I when I was doing a
lot of glycolipid biochemistry there and
working on epilepsy there and I had
written a grant internal to the
university uh on ketogenic diet for
managing
epilepsy uh which uh always was
intriguing to me but I didn't know much
about it the head of the um medical
internal board said nobody cares about
it um it's p we have all these new drugs
to manage kids seizures so you don't
really need to put them on these diets
anymore so I said okay and I continue
with my work mapping epilepsy genes and
doing biochemistry
also on cancer we had some tumor tissues
that we were looking at but it was
purely uh stricture biochemistry it
really there was no there was no linkage
to any therapy therapy or what what
might be it's what we call Pure pure
academic bio biolog biological
biochemistry studies on on on epileptic
brains and tumors and all these kinds of
things it wasn't until I got to Boston
College um uh in 1985
uh where um we continued our work with
biochemistry of cancer but then one of
my grad students came to me at that time
Mariana Tran and she's oh they're having
a big meeting at ketogenic diets in in
in Washington state run by Jim Abrams
who who is um who just passed away
recently he was the producer of the of
the Naked Gun Naked Gun kind of movies
those um those funny movies and he also
directed the movie uh first Do no harm
with Merill street because because his
son Charlie had intractable epileptic
seizures that were finally managed with
a ketogenic diet he using his Fame uh
decided to uh start a Charlie foundation
and my student told me oh they have this
big thing out in Washington I said don't
go it's a waste of time um the guys at
Yale already told me it was worthless to
study ketogenic diets oh no no no she
says they're going to pay me I said all
right if they're going to pay you go and
tell well she came back to the lab all
all wild about all the people she met
that are all exced excited about doing
ketogenic diets so we started to look at
into it with our models of mouse
epilepsy and it turned out calorie
restriction was just as effective as
ketogenic diets so and both of them
lowered blood sugar and at at at the
same time we're doing brain cancer
research on these mice we're looking at
mice and trying to look at the
glycolipids and the brain tumors and and
then um we were looking at angiogenesis
which is abnormal vascularization of the
brain tumor and then it turned out we
put these mice with brain tumors on
calorie restriction just like we did the
epilepsy and not only did the do
epilepsy does gets managed in mice that
have epilepsy but the blood blood
vessels in the size of the tumor and the
inflammation got managed using the exact
same procedure for for looking at brain
tumors so I said what the hell is going
on with this thing and it turned out
that OT warberg long ago famous German
scientist from the 20th century had
clearly showed that all these tumor
cells have defective oxidative
phosphorilation a and they're for they
have to ferment glucose to stay alive
so I started doing a deep dive on
warberg who the hell is warberg and it
turns out that he has a fascinating
charact he's a fascinating character of
of history and and biochemistry as a
Nobel winner from the 1930s discovering
the respiratory protein enzyme Hitler
spared him rather than gassing him
during the Holocaust yeah he was the
only guy on the planet that knew more
about cancer than anybody and Hitler
feared cancer so he determined who was
Jew and not Jew you know it was
unbelievable so uh and at the end of
course warberg was thrown under the bus
because everybody ran off chasing genes
for cancer and left warberg behind um
only I resurrected him big and others
but I I really found that he was in fact
correct he he absolutely knew what the
origin of cancer was and we have firmly
established that now and and and um we
cleaned up a lot of the misunderstanding
associated with the origin of cancer and
how these cells get energy things that
warberg did not know mainly because the
science wasn't there yet the discovery
of of of fermentation of the GL of the
amino acid glutamine he didn't know
anything about glutamine fermentation uh
which was the second fermentation fuel
um he made some mistakes just like
everybody else did uh and still do um uh
uh in the cancer field and it's a hard
boat to turn when you have a
multi-billion dollar industry uh
cruising along um now for the last 50
years uh uh realizing that that's going
down a path or a
p Voyage that's not going that's leading
to nowhere and um so we we've we've kind
of sh we're turning trying to slowly
turn the ship in the right direction and
show that it's not a genetic disease a
mitochondrial metabolic just like
warberg said you've been studying this
for a long time are you seeing a a
change in the incidence of of cancers
maybe you could talk a little bit about
that and what's going on in our in our
world well I think it's slowly replacing
heart disease as the number one killer
of people uh what's the new trend a
trend that I'm beginning to see and was
recently pointed out by the American
Cancer Society is younger and younger
people getting cancer uh these color
rectal cancers the
um um breast cancers certain brain
cancers it seems it seems like uh
younger and younger people and I get
emails from people that are in their
late 20s and mid-30s with all these
different kinds of cancers and saying
what the hell is going on so um and not
only that uh we we
assess success by looking at the number
of people dying okay uh when you declare
war you you you don't count the number
of people you don't count people in a
battle There Was You Know 600 people per
100,000 population that died in the
Battle you say there were there were 600
bodies laying on the field you do body
counts and the body count for cancer
goes up and up every year
and um right now in the United States we
have
1,700 people dying every day from cancer
which comes out to 70 people per hour
the only major uh effect in in reducing
the number of dead was the the the
anti-smoking campaigns of the of the
1990s that is now showing that we
probably save uh thousands of lives
about uh because people stopped smoking
it wasn't because of any major
development in new drug or therapy it
was mostly a prevention strategy that uh
prevented the death rate from even being
higher the number of dead people from
even being hired so so the answer to
your question is no we we have no major
progress in cancer in more than 50 years
in in in therapeutic uh modalities to
reduce the death the death was PR
predominantly done to a anti-smoking
campaign uh not to any new novel
therapies although you hear about all
this stuff on on TV at night katuda opdo
carum you know there all these kinds of
things they're not dropping the death
rate the death rate goes the death the
number of dead people I should say that
the number of dead people keeps going up
year in and year out to the point now
where you get 70 people an hour dying
from cancer I don't know if the
population knows that and at the same
time uh younger and younger as you
mentioned and uh when I was uh before
Medical School my good friend Jim
slotnick was diagnosed with the gleo
blastoma uh at age 25 in first year
medical school and he dies in 28 and and
stories like this along with my sister
Maryanne who had diabetes since age four
and died at 52 of heart failure and then
a healthy friend of mine uh uh dies at
52 of cancer uh and yet he was a healthy
guy and it it's really driven me to sort
of ask the question well why and and are
our genes
changing the number of women with braa
jeans is on the rise or is something
else really the cause well I think it's
it's a constellation of of provocative
you can't it's very hard to get cancer
if the mitochondria and your cells are
healthy very difficult in fact it's
extremely difficult to get cancer um if
your mitochondria healthy I mean we it
was monkey studies where they rub
chemicals on them for 10 years pour it
down their throat and did every kind and
they got one monkey out of 50 that had
some minor cancer and the conclusion was
that
monkeyy is not a good model for cancer
the the pro the problem was the monkeys
were eating their natural diet in in
their natural environment uh you would
have to give them the Great American
diet uh those monkeys rub the chemical
carcinogen and have a predatory um um
Panther walk around the cage every night
putting massive fear and stress into
them and then they'd get they would
start to get obese uh they would start
to be freaked out interrupt their sleep
uh do all these kinds of things and uh
you'll start to to see cancer because
that will damage the mitochondria we
didn't do that our our our Paleolithic
ancestors people say how would you know
Paleolithic ancestors would not get
cancer because the people living today
who follow the Paleolithic way of their
ancestors rarely if ever have cancer
it's only when you bring in the Great
American diet lifestyle or the Western
diet lifestyle you see an explosion of
diabetes obesity cancer cardiovascular
disease and dementia the major chronic
diseases are all the result
predominantly of a const station of
carcinogens poor lifestyle poor food all
these things come together damage
mitochondria in a particular population
of cells in a particular organ and you
end up with cancer and it's happening
earlier and earlier because we have an
obesity epidemic that's striking our
population at earlier and earlier ages
we have little kids that are obese that
that are six and seven years old for
crying out loud those little kids are
put at risk now for all these chronic
diseases including cancer so so this is
no mystery um uh and people say wow ke
how do you get though I know exactly how
you get it get it from damage to Ox in
Interruption chronic Interruption of
oxidative phosphorilation coupled to a
substrate level phosphorilation which is
a fermentation driven driven by glucose
and glutamine um this is so I have a
clear very clear idea and I've looked at
hundreds and hundreds of cancer they all
have the same problem um so but oh it's
a mystery we have all these forever
chemicals in our environment now we have
GMO Foods we have all kinds of stuff
that's permanent per we don't have
exercise we have emotional stress we put
all this together and and there's no
surprise that you have cancer
diabetes cardiovascular and dementia you
can throw them in there too any any kind
of chronic disease can be put in the
same pot so they're all metabolic
disorders uh that that are that are
leading to higher incidents of all
diseases and cancer is just another
disease maybe you could talk a little
bit about the about abolic disorders and
the the the
mitochondria and and how it's it's what
is its function and how did we get to
this
dysfunction well um the origin I you
know I work with Parkinson's disease as
well um and we we studied people have
studied the inflammation in the
substantia which is a
neurodegenerative disease Parkinson's
disease has a strong environmental
component as well I mean we have genes
that
act as risk factors for sure um but
they're not the prime cause they're
usually secondary causes um but when you
have dead cells in the substantial n
when mitochondria become damaged the
cells die uh they don't they don't
become tumorogenic because in tumor you
can't you can't get cancer from a dead
cell that's what warberg always said if
oxos is corrupted too too acutely in the
mitochondria uh the cell will die and
never become a tumor so it's a chronic
disruption of of oxidative
phosphorilation in the mitochondria step
one step two is that the energy
generated from oxidative phosphorilation
which is breathing we bring in oxygen we
generate energy that way it's slowly is
slowly reduced and becomes inefficient
but the cell doesn't die because it has
this capacity to increase fermentation
these ancient Pathways of generating
energy without oxygen which existed for
all proarc cells before oxygen came into
the atmosphere two and a half billion
years ago these cancer cells are simply
doing nothing but falling back and if
the cells can't fall back like neurons
or cardiac myocytes they die so you
don't get cancer from cells that can't
uh transition from oxos to fermentation
so that's why we can clearly explain why
we have some some organs and cells that
are more prone to get cancer because
they can replace oxos with compensatory
fermentation whereas other cells like
neurons in the brain and cardiac
myocytes rarely if ever get cancer or
see tumors coming from these cells
because they're incapable of of
sustaining a transition to the and they
die just like Parkinson's disease
neurons they die they don't form and
then we have these mitochondrial
mutations that disrupt mitochondrial
function they're very rare and and and
they kill cells so you don't usually get
tumors coming from mitochondrial
mutations specifically inherited
inherited mitochondrial mutations not
acquired um because you either go blind
you go deaf you you you have these kinds
of of conditions uh cancer can only come
when you transition Fox away from oxos
to substrate level phosphorilation a and
the mitochondria now loses control that
organel in ourselves is the ultimate
responsible for the quiescent state the
differentiated State the energy
efficient State and when that organel
becomes corrupted over time uh this it
controls our differentiate coent okay
cancerous cell is is is um cell division
out of control disregulated cell growth
why is it disregulated because the
organel that's supposed to regulate it
is now become dysfunctional falling back
on a fermentation metabolism and the
default state of all medone cells is
proliferation now I threw in a lot of
evolutionary terms here I threw in a lot
of biochemistry there's dozens and
dozens and hundreds of papers in the
scientific literature supporting all of
what I said and and I know for the
person that may not be familiar with
this this bio biochemical biology
literature it might be hard to to
connect the dots but but we have
certainly done this and we have
published many many papers connecting
these dots and showing people exactly
how cancer starts and and how it
progresses and how we can prevent it and
manage it can you talk a little bit
about ketogenic diets and paleo diets
and what about them that may be helpful
in reducing the risk of cancers yeah
well that's a that's an important point
because because we don't we try to get
away from the term diet because in the
medical profession diet is like a big
black box yeah that could be anything to
anybody and opposite and so we call it
ketogenic metabolic therapy for managing
cancer uh you bring the body into a
state of nutritional ketosis and you can
do that by water only fasting you can do
it by carnivore diets you can do it by
uh um harder to do it with vegan diets
but it can be done uh Mediterranean
diets pescatarian diets that's why we
developed the glucose Ketone index
calculator
to allow individuals to know whether or
not they're in nutritional ketosis uh
it's a it's a a Mojo meter that will
measure both glucose and ketones from a
drop of blood on your finger and then
you push the button and the meter will
tell you it's the ratio of blood sugar
to Ketone bodies and when you get Unity
uh which is one to one uh um or two to
one zero correction 2.0 or below where
the ketones and and glucose are
approximately even in the bloodstream in
molar amount
um you are then your brain and your
organs start to burn fatty acids and
Ketone bodies and you be really really
healthy uh because you are producing
fewer oxygen radicals and you're getting
more energy per per breath of oxygen uh
that you take in the nice thing about
that is tumor cells can't can't can't do
that they can't they they can't lock
into the same health benefits that the
normal cells can lock into because their
mitochondria dysfunctional and you need
a good mitochondria to burn fatty acids
and ketones so the T tumor cells become
compromised but then they can switch to
glutamine the fermentation of the amino
acid glutamine which is abundant in the
bloodstream so you're going to need to
Target glutamine uh specifically in a
pulse strategy rather than a press
strategy so ketogenic metabolic therapy
is essentially moving an individual into
the state of nutritional ketosis by any
number of different ways uh and then
once you're in that then you can start
to strategically Target the glutamine
and put the cancer cells uh in a very
compromised uh State uh eliminating them
slowly from from the
body what's your take on on how social
media has enabled more and more people
to have access to this
knowledge uh you know it's kind of new
more so I would say since since uh over
the last five or so years have you
noticed a a trend of people getting more
knowledge about this because of that
well they can get both good knowledge
and bad knowledge yeah they can get they
can get accurate Val valuable
information and and
misinformation um so it's a double-edged
sword I think and you're I think it's
it's unbelievable how our work has been
received by the general population uh I
published for years in peerreview
journals uh but mostly read by
scientists and and a lot of these are
behind firewalls and things that you you
have to have subscriptions uh and you
have to be a member of the society or
all these kinds of things
and you know if you got um 500 views on
a paper that you published which is
really really a lot um but now you get
when you put it on social media and and
try to explain it to the general guy the
the the lay person uh and uh and you can
see now you get tens tens of thousands
of millions of views um and and you have
to be able to be you have to have
credibility um you know I'm a professor
of biology and biochemistry at Boston
College I mean I have I've studied these
processes I publish in peer-review
journals I mean I have data to support
what I'm saying because I've done these
experiments I I just don't make stuff up
like some people do um we we have people
question what we do please go to the
Open Access scientific papers that I
publish please read the information and
become knowledgeable um but we don't see
that a lot of times so people just start
spewing crazy stuff and they don't read
the scientific literature maybe they
can't maybe they can't understand I
don't know but but yes so social media
has been very effective in spreading a
word about how to manage cancer without
without toxicity based on what we
understand the biology and the
biochemistry of the problem to be okay
that when we understand the problem we
can explain so much to the to the person
in a very clear way with the data to
support what we're saying the problem is
is that the the medical establishment
itself is mostly unfamiliar with what
with what we're saying they have never
read the papers either any more than the
guy on the street so so you really have
two groups of people one group is the
public is the public that really wants
an approach to managing cancer without
toxicity that is effective and then we
have the practitioners themselves who
are somewhat resistant to this because
they've never been trained in medical
school to understand what the hell I'm
talking about so so you have this people
want it the Prof the profession is is
stunned by it they don't really know how
how to deal with this because their
training isn't there and but eventually
the dust will settle and the the the the
uh clinicians will come to know and
they'll be able to facilitate the help
of their patients doing managing cancer
and other chronic diseases in the
correct way so it just takes time um
it's just a time thing I think you
mentioned caloric restriction does
fasting and clor restriction sort
of two sides of the same coin how how is
fasting versus chloric restriction uh
beneficial in in these types of uh
treatments yeah well uh you know we did
a lot of work on this because um it was
really interesting when we got those
magnificent reductions in epileptic
seizures and and shrinking brain tumors
and other kinds of metastatic cancers
using calorie restriction um people
thought wow that's not too bad is it
maybe I can do that so we we a 40%
restriction in a mouse which is what we
got all those spectacular results from
uh they ate 60% of the food they eat
every day we just gave them a 40%
restriction and then we did all the
blood work to look at all the changes
that was happening in the blood so then
when I went into humans I said oh my God
we don't get those same changes uh we
get those we get those very similar
changes only with water only fasting for
weeks very few people want to do that I
imagine all of a sudden everybody
oh okay keep you keep that information
to
yourself and I and I wonder in the
Paleolithic Era how often and how much
food did we eat not that we you know we
probably wanted more but were was there
more sort of forced fasting it because
of our lifestyle or access it was it was
fasting because of necessity I mean we
we we it wasn't because we wanted to be
fasted it was because we it was hard to
get food it's you know how hard it is to
run down kill a buffalo I mean stabbing
him with Spears and stuff and and then
you got to chop it up and you got to
hide it oh man it's like an all it's
like a it's like a major construction
project you know and you're going to eat
as and Gorge yourself as much as you
possibly can and there's no
carbohydrates in the diet uh and you're
GNA try to try to get all this and and a
paper just came out of well not about
six months ago came out of um um Tel
Aviv Israel they they have a lot of cave
people over there during the Paleolithic
period and they looked at the bones to
they could get an idea of what these
folks were eating you know um 50,000
years ago and it turns out they were
they were eating uh strong animals of
the herd uh which to get the marrow um
and they weren't eating the young and
they weren't eating the old of the herd
they were eating the strongest guys the
strongest members of The Herd because
they had the healthiest uh bone marrow a
and what that did was let let these
herds of different kinds of animals to
be now go extinct because The Young and
the old were picked off by predators and
the humans were eating the the the
bosses of the herd and the next thing
you know the damn the damn organism goes
out it becomes extinct uh so it it's
very interesting and I and there are um
videos on on Paleo guys today who live
according to their Paleolithic rules in
Africa and how they run separate the
strong uh elk from the rest of the
separate him and then over a period of
days just run him down run him down and
the guy running after him is chosen by
the tribe to be the most efficient
Runner who can run for the longest
period of time sweating and these poor
elk these big animals they can't run
that long and they can't sweat that long
and all of a sudden they collapse from
exhaustion and you walk up and slit the
guy's throat and there's your meal it's
unbelievable I I'm wondering if the type
of of our lifestyle is a lot of
processed food a lot of plant-based
today
versus animal-based and a lot of lower
fat and I'm wondering if the fat content
Andor the type of processed foods we're
eating may be be a factor in this oh
absolutely I mean we didn't evolve to
eat all this processed stuff
carbohydrates were very restricted and
also everything we ate was free range
they they weren't hormonally
they weren't
fattened you know we didn't start doing
it we were so happy to kill the thing
and eat it you know what are we gonna do
let's walk let's wait around give it
some beer and make it all fat to the mus
so that we can get all that nice
marbling you know it was uh it was
whatever you know find it kill it need
it you know it wasn't it wasn't and and
that's the way it is today if you look
at these the way our ancestors are doing
this so you're right I mean we we didn't
and I'm sure we had vegetable and we ate
fruits during the right part of the
Season uh they was seasonal everything
we had was seasonal seasonal you know it
wasn't uh stored it wasn't prolong we
we've engineered food now to be looking
beautiful uh for weeks without going U
becoming rotten or uh you
know defective in some way so everything
was free range everything was organic
everything was natural and we had a lot
of energy uh we used that we had
tremendous amount of exercise only when
in the in the Neolithic period when we
started to cultivate grains uh rice and
corn and and wheat did we build
societies around the food we didn't have
to run around killing all these and then
we learned how to how to herd animals we
learned how to breed them so that they
would be there so we started to that led
to society that led to civilization so
you could start doing other things
rather than spending all your time
trying to find out where your next meal
is coming from so all this stuff makes
sense and it's all linked to
evolutionary biology how we evolved and
other species evolved can you talk a
little about uh integrating both the
standard cancer therapy along with a
ketogenic
therapeutic uh metabolic therapy yeah so
what we what we have recognized and we
published a big paper on this re just
recently in biomedical BMC medicine um
we have a lot of uh MDS and phds on this
paper people are all interested in using
natural more natural ways to manage
cancer um and that's what we do we we
take people that are di first diagnosed
with cancer and then we do comprehensive
blood work to see how how close or far
they are from metabolic homeostasis
where all the blood parameters vitamins
and minerals are all in line with normal
health and then we try to bring that
individual back to a more normal state
with either with either zero
carbohydrate feeding exercise uh all you
can do it in a lot of different ways
bring the glucose Ketone index down and
then um introduce targeting of glutamine
uh with glutamine targeting drugs uh
which could be some some of the parasite
medications work well we've shown that
they target the same Pathways the cancer
cells need um and then if the tumor
either stabilizes or becomes shrunken uh
significantly uh then you can come in uh
with some of the uh parts of standards
of care
uh like uh you can do surgery for sure
you can if you have it's much easier to
cure cancer if if you get all the tumor
cells and debulk it completely than
trying to go after it when it's a raging
inflamed mess so you shrink the terma
down uh you more cap encapsulate it um
and then you can either cure it that way
or you can use a bolt of radiation a
dose of radiation to incinerate what you
have remaining or you can use an
immunotherapy or even very lowd dose
chemo all all of these approaches now
become uh Strate the strategy of using
this becomes you're in other words
you're cleaning up the whatever few
survivors you had that made it through
the metabolic stress are hanging on for
their for their dear existence and now
you can come in with some chemo or or
little radiation a little something here
and there and just polish it off the
problem today is we're going after these
cancers in an a totally inappropriate
way a person is is is diagnosed with a
stage one or two cancer and you're all
of a sudden you're radiating this guy
and you're drinking toxic poisons you're
doing surgery at an inappropriate time M
and brain cancer for sure you have to
take them out soon sometimes not always
but many times yeah it's a judgment call
so so the The Physician should be
knowledgeable enough to know let's
shrink that damn tumor down make it very
indolent very less angry less malignant
and then we can come in with logical
strategies to remove and cure
potentially cure the patient so but
we're not doing that we're doing it bass
Awards we're say oh you you failed chemo
you failed radiation you failed
everything now maybe you can do
metabolic therapy what what are you
doing doing just the
opposite so so is
it obviously preventing cancer is is
what we want to be working on as much as
anything what type of other lifestyle
things do you think are important in in
this uh cancer well you
it's so
important obviously if you can prevent
cancer you don't have to worry about all
the ways to to manage it right right
right we we don't know who we prevented
it on technically yeah well you as I
said it's you it's very difficult to get
cancer when your mitochondria remain
healthy so if you are in a Paleolithic
state where you are occasionally in a in
a state of nutritional ketosis that by
itself makes mitochondria super healthy
so so that's a preventive prevention
strategy exercise daily exercise uh
restricted calories try to try to um go
intermittent fasting as long as you can
exercise this kind of thing will will
strengthen the mitochondria and and
reduce the risk for for cancer but we
have today we have an obesity epidemic
obesity is now replacing smoking as a
major risk factor for the development of
cancer so you have these little kids and
and teenagers right they're they're um
uh getting fat they're they're obese
they're having all kinds of chronic
problems and uh if people were really
really interested in preventing cancer
if they were really really interest you
wouldn't have an obesity epidemic now
now now the the people who are obese
often have systemic inflammation they
have type two diabetes they have a lot
of other imbalances in their body all
putting their mitochondri at risk for
damage and transition to substrate level
phosphorilation and disregulated cell
growth which in fact is cancer so the
question we have if people do do does
the Obesity epidemic represent a lack of
knowledge or does it represent uh I
don't care um uh type of mentality you
know I I'll just do what I do and hope
by by the grace of God I don't get
cancer um but in other words or not even
knowing that this can put you at risk I
I think a lot of people who have obesity
aren't even aware of of of of uh how how
that condition can cause to lead to
disregulated cell growth and then you
put that on top of poor Foods you put
that on top of forever chemicals
microplastics you put all that
together and you you you have uh a real
possibility of creating a situation
putting you at risk for cancer in a
number of other chronic
diseases I'm a uh fertility specialist
in OB trician
gynecologist and two years ago the
American Journal of obsessor Gynecology
put out a u an expert report on a
healthy diet for pregnant lactating
women the number one diet they
recommended was a plantbased fruits
fiber vegetables seeds nuts lean meat no
red meat and they also recommend red
wine for pregnant lactating women and
all the other diets they recommend who
are flexitarian the DASH diet and they
recommend it against keto paleo or
Atkins diet they didn't even get to
carnivore diet and and uh you know do
you think our modern system is is just
propagating a message that's creating
our diseases well in part in part I
think so um don't forget we're still our
biology is still
Paleolithic our our technology is our
technology has evolved much much faster
than our biology
so so we are now in a new environment
that puts us at at at risk for all these
things but when you talk about
fertility um when we did bre we do all
the breeding of the mice in in in house
when we do our all of our all of our
basic research is all natural and we
breed the animals but when I was it was
interesting because we had um males and
female mice that would eventually get
older and they get fat um from eating
the diet every day and their fertility
uh would go down we'd put males in it it
was just you know hard to for these
females or these fat mice to get
pregnant uh and then I would say put
them pull them all on calorie
restriction
for and the fertility
returned so so I was able to see it
firsthand that that it actually eat less
calories the body gets healthier and
healthier and and things that you
thought were gone come
back it in in your in your
uh book um Cancer's metabolic disorder
which I think is just amazing and
fascinating and I read all about otter
warberg from there you you kind of
talked about an experiment where they
took the cells uh and they move the the
the the cancer the DNA from one cell to
another I don't know if that's something
to explain a little bit and how we can
sort of understand a little bit better
about this is that yeah well it's that
that discussion helps with a picture
better than to try to articulate it but
but um I I I because you know the the
the problem we have today with cancer is
that the reason we're not dropping the
the the number of people dying is
because the view of cancer is that it's
a genetic disease based on the National
Cancer Institute says right on their
website cancer is a genetic disease over
100 different genetic aberration and and
it was always thought for a long time uh
that the mutations uh that cancer is a
genetic disease because if you look into
the nucleus and the DNA you find all
kinds of mutations so it became logical
that these mutations are probably
leading in one way or another to
disregulated a cell growth so what I
what I had done is I didn't do any of
these experiments myself but they were
all scattered through the literature
over decades and I just simply went
through each one and I put them all
together in a big scenario and it was
clear that cancer cannot be a genetic
disease M mainly because the um these
were done beautiful experiments both in
the culture dish and in living animals
uh whether they were mice or frogs or
whatever and and you have a you have a
normal cell with a with a not with gross
growth regulated not disregulated and it
has a a nice nucleus with all the all
all the genes doing what they're
supposed to do and then you have a
cancer cell that's growth disregulated
and it has a lot of mutations in the
nucleus um but it also has abnormalities
in the cytoplasm in the form of these
mitochondria they're not healthy either
so a cancer cell has unhealthy
mitochondria and a damaged genetically
damaged nucleus so the question is what
is responsible for the disregulated cell
growth is it the somatic mutations in
the nucleus or is it the defective
oxidative phosphorilation in the
mitochondria of the cytoplasm so Israel
and Schaefer at University of ver and a
variety of others Jerry Shay man all
these guys were doing all kinds of
things because they were more interested
in asking simple question can the
nucleus of a tumor cell direct normal
development they they really weren't
testing the sematic mutation Theory so
what was interesting is they they you
take the nucleus re separate the nucleus
from the cytoplasm of a tumor cell and
then you remove the normal nucleus from
another cell and you drop the tumor
nucleus into the cytoplasm of the normal
cell and what was found is you got
growth
uh regulated growth no no disregulated
growth no no malignancy nothing on the
other hand if you took the nucleus from
a normal cell healthy nucleus and
dropped it into the cyto enucleated
cytoplasm just the cytoplasm of the
tumor cell all of a sudden you got
disregulated cell
growth that told us exactly Cancer
Cannot Be A sematic mutation driven and
then listen to this so I started to go
and do a bigger dive and then all these
guys doing these Gene sequences looking
thousands and thousands of mutations but
they they find cancer cells that have no
mutations in their big screens and they
say oh yeah we found 30 cancer breast
cancer that was it wasn't a single
mutation that we could find but yet the
did growth out of control so how could
you have a the a theory that says the
disregulated cell growth is due to
sematic mutations when I have some
cancers that have disregulated cell
growth without a sematic mutation that's
another so they said oh no no only some
ations are bad called driver genes the
driver the driver gen so we have all
these science and nature and cell papers
talking about driver genes now with the
latest new genetic Technologies we're
looking at normal tissues from our body
in people and we're finding all these
damn driver genes in people who have no
cancer and and and it's not driving the
cancer I always sort of Imagine a
damaged cell wants to all cells want to
survive and and and what
when we think about metastases I always
imagine the cell thinks oh I'm in a bad
environment I've got to go find a better
environment to survive in and reproduce
is is is that sort of an analogy that
you think makes sense that you know it's
just our our environment within our body
is is damaged well well we have a big
paper on metastasis uh it took me 10
years to figure out the origin of
metastatic cancer um it it we we have
tumor cells that that you put them into
the mouse and they spread all over the
body I mean they just rip the whole
Mouse becomes full of cancer brain colon
and I said it took us 10 years to figure
out what kind of cell because we have so
many cancer cells uh um that you put
into the mouse and it forms a big tumor
in place it doesn't spread it just gets
bigger and bigger and bigger in place
and I said what's the difference between
the tumors that get big in place and
never spread and the one that you put in
there and you don't even see big tumor
all of a sudden it spreads through the
whole the whole the whole Mouse so it
turned after 10 years uh 10 or 12 years
of doing this we found out that the
metastatic cell has all of the
characteristics of one type of our
immune cell called the maccrage uh the
maccrage is part of our cellular
immunity system so if we have a
bacterial infection or a wound these
cells come in and they're very powerful
in curing the wound and killing bacteria
so when we have an incipient lesion in
our body leading to a a group of stem
cells CA starting to proliferate they
start proliferating and they are
neoplastic which means they're
disregulated in their growth but they
can't go anywhere our immune these other
macrofagos that are supposed to put out
the fire and heal the wound they're
throwing growth factors on top of these
other cells with the hope of healing
them and what those growth factors are
doing are making these stem cells grow
faster and more disregulated throwing
out lactic acid and and succinic acid
which are the fermentation products our
immune cells are are constantly stressed
by trying to put out the fire but
they're contributing to the fire and
they're very highly fusogenic so they
start fusing with these stem cells and
you get this kind of a hybrid cell now
that has all of the genetic apparatus to
enter and exit the bloodstream and
spread through your whole body going to
lymph noose so the the metastatic cell
is nothing more than one of our immune
cells becoming corrupted in an attempt
to put out so we clearly Define this
whole and other people have too
and yet the cancer field is completely
missing missing this so then we did a
big dive and we looked at all major
metastatic human cancers breast colon
lung every one of the human metastatic
cancers has characteristics of these
macras so clearly we know what met and
get a l of this so okay now we know what
the metastatic cancer cell is how do you
kill them figure out what they eat right
what do they eat there's been a huge
amount of work on on on on the on on
what drives our immune system our immune
cells macras and others they down
glutamine like there's no tomorrow so
they're glutamine driven and glucose
driven and now we know how to kill them
we just take away the glucose and
glutamine put them in a state of
nutritional ketosis where they can't use
the Ketone bodies or the fatty acids and
we can kill metastatic cancer cells
without systemic toxicity the issue
people can't believe what I'm saying
because because it's not consistent with
what the world view of cancer is as a
genetic disease but listen we understand
the biology of this disorder better than
everybody else does almost everybody
else and we know how to manage it
without toxicity and we can do it but
the problem is nobody wants to believe
it or they can't understand it or
whatever so so we're locked into having
uh 1700 people a day dying from a
condition that can be effectively
managed without toxicity that's the
great that's the great tragedy and and
that's really so sad where does the
microbiome come into this and Salsbury
Stak uh James Henry Salsbury did a lot
of work on this back in the 1800s where
uh he showed there was a significant
proliferation of the yeast and bacteria
in the gut and he switched their the the
men to mostly a a meat-based diet um and
it seemed to help them is is there sort
of a work here between the sugars and
the microbes that may be also adverse
for the development of cancers well I
don't know if it's if it's important for
the development of cancer um
as such I mean if you have chronic
digestive issues uh you can lead to
coloral cancer or some some chronic
inflammation like that but yeah I agree
you know it's funny here's the here's
the remarkable thing there's a lot of
people who study microbiome and and they
love the billions of different kind of
bacteria in there they call them forests
bushes and and a great luxuri luxurious
array of ba bacteria in the microbiome
and oh wow look at all the gene
expression profiles all the family of
bacteria you know you eat something and
your microbiome gets all excited um or
doesn't and then when you have cancer
you poison and irradiate people you
cause massive diet blow the hell out of
the microbiome I mean so whatever Health
it was whatever whatever it was doing
healthy you just killing the whole thing
I mean why if every if people are so
concerned about microbiome why would you
treat people that destroy your
microbiome and attempt to make you
healthy does that does that make any
sense to you oh yeah no no it doesn't
not one bit it is are there different
sugars other than
glucose that maybe a factor and I'm I I
read a little bit about the glycobiome
and plant sugars might be different than
other cellular sugars in animals and all
all different microbes and and organisms
have a slightly different sugar layer I
wonder where that comes in well we
tested that as well um we looked at um
uh s sorbose can can replace glucose a
little bit but sorbose isn't in our diet
we don't we don't eat sorbose so yeah
cancer cell can take in Sorbo who who
takes sorbos nobody so um and there's
another part of the DNA molecule um that
people have found one of the one of the
nucleotide sugars uh just escapes my
mind right now um but they say oh look
at that the cancer cell can eat this
nucleotide sugar uh yes it can the the
problem is there's so little of it in
the micro environment that that a hungry
cancer cell would zap it down instantly
so that leaves the prime fuel of cancer
is the sugar glucose which is abundant
everywhere yeah so so um yes there are
other sugars that can U that can be used
by a cancer cell but you have to realize
we have a logistic problem that's a
supply issue um you when you're burning
when you're using fermentation it's an
extremely inefficient metabolic system
and in order to run run a fermentation
machine you better have a buttload of
fermentable fuels in the environment to
run a fermentation machine whereas a
oxidative phosphorilation requires very
tiny amounts of material to get a huge
amount of energy so yes cancer cells can
use other uh sources of energ for energy
for fermentation but there's so little
of it there's no it's a logistic problem
and the fuels that are most abundant in
our body are glucose and glutamine and
those are the two fuels driving the
Beast and once you know that then you
know how to kill the
Beast it's interesting because uh in the
in hospitals and and and even in in
clinics where people need fluids are
giving them IV fluids with glucose yeah
and and that seems to be
counter we actually occasionally give
people actually we do this quite
regularly we give them IV fat we give
them either either fish oil intervenous
or or or olive oil intervenous the soy
oil also and uh we we there's some
evidence that it may reduce inflammation
systemically and we help the people who
are trying to get pregnant and it kind
of be interesting to see uh and I don't
know if it's anyone's done any this work
on infusing more fat well I don't think
we've infused it we drink it you know
like medium chain triglyceride oil and
things like that but putting it directly
into the bloodstream um we we we have
not done that you see our our view is
the following um if you know how to tame
the Beast and bring it down into an
indolent State uh uh let's do that first
and then as we continue to perfect the
system we look more into more more and
more into the kinds of things you just
raised uh because now we have some time
the patient is no longer in a critical
stage it's an indolent stage now we can
test some of those oils intravenous oils
and some of this and see how how how the
the tumor might change but but when we
have a critical situation and somebody's
told you you have a year to live or two
years to live uh you you want to take
charge and control of that tumor right
away the best way you can and then
because you have to realize what we are
doing is just the beginning of a new
form of treatment of cancer which is
called metabolic therapy and once we
understand let's get the Beast under
control make it indolent and then we can
come at it with a variety of new ways
that people never even even thought of
we could use AI artificial intelligence
to tell us which dietary components used
with what particular drug is going to be
most effective in killing tumor cells
without creating toxicity to normal
cells so this is just the beginning of
what the future will
be ketones and MCT oils and adding and
these type of supplements has there been
any studies on those to see where the
benefits are yeah well Dom the austino
my friend from University of South
Florida uh he built some uh Ketone
Esters uh that you can drink uh that
raises Ketone bodies really fast uh and
it also suppresses glucose so it's kind
of an interesting it's an interesting
scenario but yeah our bodies can be
transitioned over to ketones I mean you
can do the water only fasting um or and
when you're down in fasting you can take
Ketone drinks uh and things like this
that raise ketones more which then
suppresses glucose even more and the
tumor cell can't use the ketones so
they're being they're going to be
metabolized by the by the normal cells
so so so it's a very interesting way to
to do the the answers to your questions
Rob we haven't done it yet but it's
going to be the future uh we're looking
forward to a lot of really interesting
ways uh to manage health and kill cancer
cells while keeping the rest of the body
healthy and get healthier and healthier
I I've seen some cancer patients with gu
tanom hypertension diabetes high blood
pressure me metastatic cancer and when
he did did these water only fasting with
with some GL glutamine targeting
everything went away Hy hypertension
high blood pressure diabetes into the
cancer so so because they're all part of
a chronic disturb disturbance in in
metabolic homeostasis so so yeah all
this stuff is going to be really
exciting once people come to know what's
going on advice for someone who's just
been diagnosed with h cancer well you
know I I'm not a physician I can't tell
anybody what to do or what not to do and
I deliver
educational information uh for them to
make the choices um because ultimately
it's their choice it's their soul it's
their existence uh with knowledge you
can make make perhaps make better better
decisions about your health the problem
is you'd like to have a knowledgeable
physician that could guide you and help
you uh with these decisions uh rather
than slap you down and tell you there's
no evidence to support this and that's
one of the great disturbances that I
unfortunate situations because when the
cancer patient or many of the other
patients with chronic diseases are not
getting the appropriate management
because the Physicians themselves have
never been trained to understand this so
um you then you have this
problem is obesity linked to a higher
risk of cancer and all sorts of other
metabolic disorders yeah absolutely uh
this is what this is why obesity is
starting to replace smoking uh when you
look at obesity you have C reactive
protein it's a it's a marker for
systemic inflammation uh uh this is uh
elevated in in in in some people not
everybody that's obese has these things
but you're you're looking at an inflamed
micro environment you're looking at
inflammation systemic inflammation
damages the efficiency of oxidative
phosphorilation putting you at risk for
a variety of chronic diseases including
dementia and and diet is linked to
obesity so it sort of all comes to the
point where that dietary changes seem to
be critical component and lifestyle
changes yeah well I would certainly say
diet and exercise clearly exercise is so
I can't tell you how important exercise
is because you're you're exercising your
mitochondria as well as the muscles uh
and your mitochondria becoming more
energy efficient with exercise uh if
you're fasting and doing exercise man
your mitochondria gonna be humming
they're gonna be super healthy I I
always most people who are exercising in
general are changing their diet uh and
and that may be sort of a combination
which is good lifestyle changes for
everyone yeah but you know it's hard
yeah it's not easy it's easy to talk
about it's very difficult to do it you
know I don't know where you live I I I
I'm in Boston and and and I have to deal
with the crazy people coming up from R
Island there's a lot of my friends
coming from Ro they were like one of the
worst drivers they come flying up out of
Providence bobbing and weaving through
the through the car through the the L
the lanes right um we gotta love when
the Rhode Island people come come up the
okay you're okay you're sitting you're
not doing anything but driving and you
get frustrated by all everybody speeding
around you going up on the I mean and
then and then you know you're sitting in
traffic right uh you're listening to
some book on tape or some song and then
you have to walk in and then you have to
fight this whole crowd when going home
at night and then you come in and what
you're looking for is a cocktail you
know oh I'm gonna go out in the backyard
now and and and uh do all this exercise
and do all this kind of stuff the kids
are screaming everybody's running around
let's just throw something in a
microwave it's quick and easy it's
processed you don't have to get too much
and we've become lazy like that yeah
because but it's convenience it's
convenience and it tastes so good it's
engineered to taste good uh F flavors
foods and flavored guys are always
trying to peek our tongue do you ever
have a Chick-fil-A Sandwich unbelievably
good oh once you have a little bit you
just you don't want to stop you want
more then you have the sauces it's all
sugar Laden
which which ultimately was what we were
supposed to do is hyperphagic and Hyper
eat these things yeah but but only for a
short time and it was Nature's not all
this manipulated food all as I say in
many podcasts and I I I just speculate
on this because we always wanted honey
uh honey is sweet honey is is delicious
uh and you can make a lot of things from
honey but that was a natural source of
very sweet material was honey
but it was always protected by all these
angry bees so when you went after it the
bees would come out and sting you um but
and the bear will will put his face into
the honey lick and he have his tongue
and his eyes all swollen shut from the
stings who is the first me member of our
species that if you smoke these bees
they don't sting you as much that's
called
Innovation the poor dumb bear doesn't
know that but we knew how to finally do
that it it seems to me the plant is
really the smartest one in all of this
and and uh they know how to get the bees
to and the other insects to pollinate
and and uh and go from there yeah what
are some of the reliable resources where
patients and their families can find
accurate and up-to-date information that
you've been sharing in others in your
your particular field of metabolic
therapy for cancer well we as I said we
our papers are are open access so all
one has to do is put my name Thomas and
sea freed what's what does he publish
public
Publications and you'll get a whole list
of them our press pulse therapeutic
strategy which is the framework by which
the new standards of care will be built
but it was a frame it was a skeleton it
was a framework um our recent paper just
came out about BMC medicine which put
Flesh on the frame so now people can
read it and a I'm sorry that some people
are might be blown away or or dissuaded
from reading it because of the medical
technology and scientific technology but
they can sit with family members or have
bring somebody in and sit down and
here's the here's what here's what is
written here maybe you can have somewh
interpret it for you because there is
some level of scientific literacy that's
required uh to understand this but when
your when your when your existence in
your soul is is at the end of this whole
thing you might want to try to figure
out what the hell is going on so um
because you can only dumb it down so
much because it has to have scientific
credibility but you try to do it to the
point where where most reasonably
educated people can understand what what
what's going on and you read that and
you read it again and again because I've
had people read some of our stuff and
then they went out and and treated their
dogs and themselves uh with Incredible
success in managing cancer in both their
animals and and themselves so so um and
I didn't they were never trained to do
this I said what did you do oh I
listened to your podcast over and over I
read one one of your papers like hundred
times and I finally realized what I
needed to do and I did it and I got
success so I mean so what am I supposed
to say you know it's just that it would
be nice if your oncologist could
interpret that for you but he's angry by
the fact that he's that that he's
telling you sugar is good for you take
as much sugar as you possibly can not
all of them of course we we know that
they're coming they're coming around
slowly but but you'd like to have
knowledgeable Physicians guiding you
through this process and that will come
in time messages of Hope what would you
what would you want to share with with
our with our uh community and uh with
our brothers and sisters around the
world is there a message of Hope here oh
absolutely I mean the the the the we
have a clear plan it's no longer a
mystery cancer is not a mystery it's not
some hopelessly complicated disease it's
actually a very very simple kind of a
problem metabolically it's not it's hope
they made it to be hopelessly
Complicated by thinking it was a genetic
disease thereby it's bewilderingly
complex but when you realize it's a
simple metabolic problem now you have
strategies to work with and manage the
disease not only in preventing it but
what this is a nice thing about
metabolic therapy it's really wonderful
you can use metabolic therapy to prevent
you from getting cancer and some other
chronic diseases and if you do happen to
get cancer or some other chronic disease
you can use a modification of the same
strategy to manage the disease this this
differs massively from current standard
of care no one no one does prophylactic
radiation and highd does chemo to
prevent them from getting cancer right
doesn't make any sense but then when you
get cancer you go and do all that stuff
so so um so this is the I think
knowledge is power and I think people
don't want to suffer the way we cancer
is so frightening it's the number one
frightening disease on the planet
because people fear the terrible tragedy
you have to go through I lose my hair my
gums are bleeding my microbiome is
destroyed uh you know and I slowly
disintegrate while they're doing all
this we can change all that metabolic
therapy will change all of
that dogs and cats are getting uh
diabetes and arthritis and Cancers and
all sorts of disease why why are they
getting this disease they the same crap
food we're eating and they're not
exercising the the wolf we did a big
study my one of my students say said
what kills wolves you know wolves they
they they eat chickens and you never see
a wolf attack a cornfield R ripping out
plants you know they're they're eating
chickens they eite mice rats whatever
they can get they're all they're kind of
a not an obligate carnivore like a cat
but they're they're they're pretty much
omniv omnivorous but more on the on the
on the carnivore carnivore side it turns
out and all dogs all domestic dogs are
derived from the wolf they're all
genetically similar to The Wolf we
domesticated wolves and made pet pets
out of them in different variet
different breeds it turns out wolves die
from infections and injury that's and
that's actually how our I lithic
ancestors mostly died infections and
injury we did not have orthopedic
surgeons we did not have antibiotics so
by the grace of God an injury didn't
kill you or infection didn't kill you
survive uh we have very powerful immune
systems to to prevent that well the dogs
are eating the same crap food they're
not exercis they're getting fat they're
getting cancer diabetes where the Wolves
aren't now you take a wolf and put it
and when you bring up a wolf in domest
you don't bring him domesticated but you
put him in a cage you feed him the kind
of food that he was eating in the wild
you're not giving him the crap food that
we're feeding our pets and also it's
convenient for us I mean we're g we're
not going to go out and chop up chickens
and all this and give it to our dog or
find some mice and throw it you know
it's it's just it's just the dogs are
suffering and the dogs love the same
crap food we
like it's addiction and we all want to
have more and more and more and that's
the sad part and and dogs and cats
obesity and and sitting around because
out in nature are they just lying on the
couch all day well no because they were
you had to move your ass you're going to
start today you had to hunt you had to
go on the
hunt is there anything that that I
haven't asked that you wanted to to make
sure that people listen to heard the
story of yeah well it probably is but I
can't think of it right now you know the
the the the issue of course is that a
lot of our our stuff is published uh and
I know it's heavy into the science in
some of our papers man it's really you
got to be doing it but it's out there we
have we have more simple ones Wella a
cancer as a metabolic dis disease is one
of the best books I've ever written now
is it is it my is it my book or is it
some other book because they put my name
on some books that are not mine I didn't
write them uh well I don't know I don't
have a copy of it here with me but but
what is it do you have a copy of or or
it's this one I went to Amazon and
looked at it again this one this is the
only book I ever wrote yep that's that's
the one yeah that's the one that I read
and and it woke me up yeah yeah um but
there are several other books that have
my name on it uh it's a summary of what
I said it's not I didn't I didn't write
that so but but that is there's there's
plenty of deep science in that book but
there's also the story is I think easily
understood by by most lay people
personally yeah I I wrote I wrote the
book specifically to let this hard
hardcore scientists know that we knew
what we were talking about uh but I also
wrote it in a way that some chapters can
be understood quite quite easily by the
lay person so and I know lay people say
oh God that chapter four I didn't
understand one word in it and then the
scientist I love chapter four but I
didn't like I didn't like the story on
the other it was too simple
well you can't please everybody that's
that's that is absolutely this the story
what what would you like to see uh in at
an outcome to all of the amazing work
you've done over the years well I think
the thing we' like to see right away is
a clinic that can establish the
metabolic therapy in a structured way so
that we can quantify in in bigger trials
uh people that are being treated by
knowledgeable nurses Physicians
nutritionists um holistic kind of people
and and and run-of-the-mill oncologists
themselves all all coming together to to
to do this uh we don't have any of that
we have small case reports we have
anecdotal things we're trying to collect
as much data on these folks as possible
we have a reg we're starting a registry
where just a moment ago before we had
this email some nice woman from Seattle
Washington called me up she had
metastatic breast cancer and she used
metabolic therapy a couple of years ago
and she has no evidence of disease and
and uh she's just like beaming with so
excite excitement about this and and I
we're taking a we're trying to develop a
registry to collect what did what do all
these people do uh what is their
experience so can we can we come to a a
finer point on this because uh we're
we're putting structure into this but a
lot of people are achieving success uh
without some kind of structure and I I
need to know what they're all doing
they're following what we say in part
from one one thing to another and then
they're throwing in some supplements I I
have no idea what the hell's going on so
as a scientist we like to we like to
identify the variables and account for
which ones are working and which ones
aren't working so we can streamline and
make this whole thing a lot better I I
think maybe the next book is is the
Thomas uh and cyphered uh uh book on
metabolic uh ketogenic therapy and and
of P protocols that that people can
maybe uh follow and and share in some
ways we've been we've been I've been
writing and talking about ketogenic and
carnivore diets for fertility for some
time now we're just now starting to
begin to document some of those stories
and I've been working with uh Carrie man
and Adam Lacy from healing Humanity uh
in in in a lot of this also because I
think it's the the more stories that we
we share and ultimately the scientific
papers are are are a compilation of
these stories uh yeah well that's why
that's why the critical issue in my mind
is to identify the variables
uh separate the really powerful ones
from the others and and really put
together a platform that has the
greatest opportunity of managing the
disease uh uh and reduce and and
preventing any level of of adverse
toxicity that that seems to be the
challenge and it will happen um it
definitely will happen but but getting
standard science medicine to come around
to this because they're very resistant
to dietary changes Lifestyle Changes
like this that I have found so far but I
think the more we talk about this on
social media the more you write about it
the Open Access to Scientific papers I
mean I have trouble getting to many
scientific papers and journals uh
because they're they're all sort of
blocked unless you want to SP spend a
lot of money to get access yeah and
sometimes I'm like I don't want to do
that no well that's why I put all my
stuff my Big Lot most of my papers uh in
Open Access so it becomes you can
anybody that has a computer can pick it
up on their computer so it doesn't and
they don't have to pay anything for it
it's free it's open um but and you know
the thing that that frust frustrates me
to many if you look at the comments that
some of my major uh interviews and
YouTubes have people asking me all these
kinds of questions what can I eat for
this what can I do what can I but yet I
have it all we have it all written they
just don't want to read it and I can't
just keep telling person every day you
there's no diet that will lower your
glutamine level there is no diet that
will lower your glutamine level you need
drugs to Target glutamine yes you can
lower your blood sugar with diets but
you can't lower your glutamine with
diets um to the Le to to lower to the
level to kill cancer cells that's the
key even fasting fasting will not no it
it won't do it because you there's so
much glutamine in our bloodstream
already to maintain the gut the health
of the gut the immune system and the
cancer cell is well below that threshold
so it's got plenty of glutamine
therefore you need a drug to come in to
do that and it has to be pulsed
otherwise you damage your gut and your
normal immune cells so all of that has
been worked out in our strategy and
that's what the Perfection of the
metabolic therapy is designed to do
ketogenic metabolic therapy get your
body into nutritional ketosis and then
we go strategically using specific drugs
to kill off uh just to block the
glutamine availability so this is all uh
outlined in our new big paper that came
out uh in by BMC medicine it talks about
the strategies it talks about about how
we plan to do this for gleo blastoma but
you can do it the same strategy can be
used for lung colon breast because they
all have the same metabolic problem
they're
fermenters what about eating fat raw fat
has has anyone looked at that uh it's I
have butter in my refrigerator that's
been there for six months no mold yeah
and and and I've just curious if
anyone's looked at that where people eat
well you know there have been people
like that but you got to be careful
because that can throw you out a
metabolic homeostasis I mean you need
you need an accurate balance of micro
and macr nutrients um not to because
everything is absolutely
needed well it's interesting because
bears hibernate they lose no muscle mass
no bone mass but they only lose adapost
tissue so my my my sense is is that
adapost tissue actually contains
probably every mineral vitamin and
building block of our bodies it just
might be interesting and because by
eating you know fat uh it might be
something interesting I just kind of
thinking about it as as we're we're
talking here well I mean you can't eat
much of it because it triggers the uh
hormone
kinin which is H it's it's an appetite
suppressing hormone so when you have
when you have a lot of fat col your
appetite depressant turns I don't want
need any more of your fat I don't want
fat right right but you eat enough of it
to stay alive but marrow don't forget
marrow has a that's why our ancestors
would eat marrow is a lot of energy in
Marrow but you know having me B you know
hard it is to get to get the you have to
crack an elephant bone and then scoop
out the marrow and pound it down I mean
there's a lot of work breaking the H
huge not easy not easy think about it
you know uh but that's who we were
that's who we are still we're still a
Paleolithic man in in in a modern uh
Society so uh and we're paying the price
for that I think the manual that you put
out there for all those questions what
do we do how do we do this it it's got
to be a a manual to help both the
scientist incorporate into their their
uh modalities and treatments but also
for Lay people to to look at it and
think about it yeah well I mean I don't
know how much energy I have left Ian I
gotta get the first book almost killed
me are you kidding me oh yeah but I have
a plan to do a second one but I I don't
know exactly when it will be it's it's a
huge amount of work well again I I
appreciate you U uh Professor cyer for
being on uh with us today and sharing
your story and uh we'll put links to
your work uh out there uh because what
you're doing is a game changer you have
to remember that all of our research is
currently supported by philanthropy and
private
foundations um and I I right now that's
a real good thing considering all the
disruption of the federal government but
but it doesn't that doesn't affect us at
all so philanthropic donations to my
research through the university Boston
College or through Travis
christopherson's Foundation uh for
cancer metabolic therapies uh people
donate to these foundations and then we
have direct channel to give the money
back to the university to my research so
philanthropy philanthropy and private
foundations keeps us going and
constantly testing our therapies against
all different types of cancers uh to see
if we can find any cancer out there that
is resistant to metabolic therapy and so
far we haven't found one so it tells us
do you have a website that people can go
to too no not really um that website
they see it's I don't know who managed
it I don't even know where it came from
uh people just sometimes email me at the
University um and I give them
information uh but you know uh you know
people want to see progress I to this
day I don't understand how people give
these hundreds of millions of dollars to
the top Cancer Centers uh only to keep
perpetuate the problem um it's just
amazing to me I mean we can drop the
death rate that death on this so fast if
if we do metabolic therapy I don't know
where all that money goes there never
seems to be any accountability where
where all the millions of dollars are
going certainly not certainly not do
anything to to help uh reduce the the
number of people dying that's for sure
it's marketing uh into the uh American
Heart Association Cancer Association
diabetic Association and and they have
better marketing I think than than many
other these well I mean the simple
question is is what where is the
research what are you doing with the the
money and if they say oh we're we're
hunting for this Gene and we're going to
look for that well that then you might
as well just flush the toilet down the
money money down the toilet it ain't
gonna it ain't going to help it'll help
some people but but it's it's not going
to reduce the total number of people
dying from cancer yeah yeah well I I've
been excited for us to talk for a long
time and I just again love what you're
doing and uh I'm in the carnivore keto
space uh we're actually talking about
having a meet up in Boston coming up uh
maybe later this year so maybe we
a couple of my students are big into the
carnivore thing too you know so they're
they're right on your line there well
well I look forward to again more more
work by yourself and and and those that
you've been teaching to to share this so
it could grow more more and more in this
in this world we need this yeah thank
you thank you thank you well again I
appreciate you and uh I look forward to
uh communicating and and sharing more of
your work yeah thanks a lot Rob nice
nice being here all right God bless
thanks start